[Doc]Add best practice doc[skip ci] (#8972)
NVIDIA/spark-rapids: docs/get-started/best-practices.md

---
layout: page
title: Best Practices on Spark RAPIDS
nav_order: 15
parent: Getting-Started
---

# Best Practices on Spark RAPIDS

This article explains the most common best practices using the RAPIDS Accelerator especially for 
performance tuning and troubleshooting.

## Workload Qualification

By following [Workload Qualification](./getting-started-workload-qualification.md), you can identify
the best candidate Spark applications for the RAPIDS Accelerator and also the feature gaps.

Based on [Qualification tool](../spark-qualification-tool.md)'s output, you can start with the top N
recommended CPU Spark jobs, especially if those jobs are computation heavy jobs (Large Joins, 
HashAggregate, Windowing, Sorting).

After those candidate jobs are run on GPU using the RAPIDS Accelerator, check the Spark driver 
log to find the not-supported messages starting with `!`. Some missing features might be enabled by
turning on some config, but please understand the corresponding limitation detailed in 
[the advanced configuration document](../additional-functionality/advanced_configs.md).

> For other unsupported features, please file feature request on 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For other unsupported features, please file feature requests on 
```

> [spark-rapids github repo](https://github.com/NVIDIA/spark-rapids/issues) with a minimum reproduce

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[spark-rapids Github repo](https://github.com/NVIDIA/spark-rapids/issues) with a minimum reproduce
```

> and the not-supported messages if they are non-senstive data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and the not-supported messages if they are non-sensitive data.
```

## Performance Tuning
Refer to [Tuning Guide](../tuning-guide.md) for more details.

## How to handle GPU OOM issues

Spark jobs running out of GPU memory is the most common issue because GPU memory is usually much 

> smaller than host memory. Below are some common tips to help avoid GPU OOM issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
smaller than host memory. Below are some common tips to help avoid GPU OOM issues.
```

### 1. Reduce the number of concurrent tasks per GPU

This is controlled by `spark.rapids.sql.concurrentGpuTasks`. Try to decrease this value to 1. 
If the job still hit OOMs, try the following steps.

### 2. Install CUDA 11.5 or above version

The default value for `spark.rapids.memory.gpu.pool` is changed to `ASYNC` from `ARENA` for CUDA 
11.5+. For CUDA 11.4 and older, it will fall back to `ARENA`.
Using ASYNC allocator can avoid some memory fragmentation issues.

The Spark executor log will contain a message like the following when using the ASYNC allocator:

```
INFO GpuDeviceManager: Initializing RMM ASYNC pool size = 17840.349609375 MB on gpuId 0
```

### 3. Identify which SQL, job and stage is involved in the error

> The relationship between SQL/job/stage are: Stage belongs to a Job which belongs to SQL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The relationship between SQL/job/stage is: Stage belongs to a Job which belongs to SQL.
```

> Firstly check Spark UI to identify the problematic SQL ID, Job ID, and Stage ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First check the Spark UI to identify the problematic SQL ID, Job ID, and Stage ID.
```

> Then find the failed stage in the `stages` page in Spark UI, and go into that stage to look at tasks.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then find the failed stage in the `Stages` page in the Spark UI, and go into that stage to look at tasks.
```

If some tasks completed successfully while some tasks failed with OOM, check the amount of input 

> types or shuffle bytes read per task to see if there is any data skew.

Reviewer 2: What is meant by "input types"?

Author: Typo it should be "bytes". fixed

Check the DAG of the problematic stage to see if there are any suspicious operators which may 

> consume huge amounts of memory, such as windowing, collect_list/collect_set, explode, etc. 

Reviewer: GPUExpend is another more commonly used Expression, shall we also add it here?

Author: Added expand

### 4. Increase the number of tasks/partitions based on the type of the problematic stage

#### a. Table Scan Stage

If it is a table scan stage on Parquet/ORC tables, then the number of tasks/partitions is normally 
determined by `spark.sql.files.maxPartitionBytes`. We can decrease its value to increase the
number of tasks/partitions for this stage so that the memory pressure of each task is less. 

Iceberg or Delta  tables may have different settings to control the concurrency in the table
scan stage. For example, Iceberg uses `read.split.target-size` as a table property or read option
to control the split size.

#### b. Shuffle Stage

If it is a shuffle stage, then the number of tasks/partitions is normally determined by 

> `spark.sql.shuffle.partitions`(default value=200), and also AQE's Coalescing Post Shuffle Partitions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`spark.sql.shuffle.partitions` (default value=200), and also AQE's Coalescing Post Shuffle Partitions
```

> feature (Such as parameters `spark.sql.adaptive.coalescePartitions.minPartitionSize`, 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
feature (such as parameters `spark.sql.adaptive.coalescePartitions.minPartitionSize`, 
```

> `spark.sql.adaptive.advisoryPartitionSizeInBytes` etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`spark.sql.adaptive.advisoryPartitionSizeInBytes`, etc.).
```

We can adjust the above parameters to increase the number of tasks/partitions for this shuffle
stage to  reduce the memory pressure for each task. For example, we can start with increasing 

> `spark.sql.shuffle.partitions` (2x,4x,8x,etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`spark.sql.shuffle.partitions` (2x, 4x, 8x, etc.).
```

> `spark.sql.shuffle.partitions` (2x, 4x, 8x, etc.).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`spark.sql.shuffle.partitions` by a factor of 2, then 4, then 8, etc.
```

Even without an OOM error, if the SQL plan metrics show lots of spilling from the

> Spark UI in this stage, increasing the number  of tasks/partitions could decrease the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Spark UI in this stage, increasing the number of tasks/partition could decrease the
```

spilled data size to improve performance.

Note: AQE's Coalescing Post Shuffle Partitions feature could have different behaviors in different 
Spark 3.x versions. For example, in Spark 3.1.3, `spark.sql.adaptive.coalescePartitions.minPartitionNum`
by default is set to `spark.sql.shuffle.partitions`(default value=200). However in Spark 3.2 or 3.3, 

> `minPartitionNum` does not exist any more. So always check the correct version of the Spark documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`minPartitionNum` does not exist anymore. So always check the correct version of the Spark documentation.
```

> `minPartitionNum` does not exist anymore. So always check the correct version of the Spark documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`minPartitionNum` was removed. So always check the correct version of the Spark documentation.
```

### 5. Reduce columnar batch size and file reader batch size

> Please refer to [Tuning Guide](../tuning-guide.md#columnar-batch-size) to understand below 2 Spark 
> RAPIDS parameters:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Please refer to the [Tuning Guide](../tuning-guide.md#columnar-batch-size) for details on the following 
RAPIDS parameters:
```

```
spark.rapids.sql.batchSizeBytes
spark.rapids.sql.reader.batchSizeBytes
```

> ### 6. File an issue on the Github repo

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 6. File an issue or ask a question on the Github repo
```

If you are still getting an OOM exception, please get the Spark eventlog and stack trace from the 
executor (the whole executor log ideally) and send to spark-rapids-support@nvidia.com , or file a 

> Github issue on [spark-rapids github repo](https://github.com/NVIDIA/spark-rapids/issues) if it is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Github issue on [spark-rapids GitHub repo](https://github.com/NVIDIA/spark-rapids/issues) if it is 
```

> not sensitive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
not sensitive.  Or, open a [discussion thread](https://github.com/NVIDIA/spark-rapids/discussions).  
```

---
layout: page
title: Best Practices on Spark RAPIDS
nav_order: 15
parent: Getting-Started
---

# Best Practices on Spark RAPIDS

This article explains the most common best practices using the RAPIDS Accelerator especially for 
performance tuning and troubleshooting.

## Workload Qualification

By following [Workload Qualification](./getting-started-workload-qualification.md), you can identify
the best candidate Spark applications for the RAPIDS Accelerator and also the feature gaps.

Based on [Qualification tool](../spark-qualification-tool.md)'s output, you can start with the top N
recommended CPU Spark jobs, especially if those jobs are computation heavy jobs (Large Joins, 
HashAggregate, Windowing, Sorting).

> After those candidate jobs are actually run on GPU using the RAPIDS Accelerator, check Spark driver 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After those candidate jobs are run on GPU using the RAPIDS Accelerator, check the Spark driver 
```

log to find the not-supported messages starting with `!`. Some missing features might be enabled by

> turning on some config, but please firstly understand this config's limitation based on 
> [Configuration](../configs.md). For other unsupported features, please file feature request on 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
turning on some config, but please understand the corresponding limitation detailed in 
[the advanced configuration document](../additional-functionality/advanced_configs.md).
For other unsupported features, please file feature request on 
```

[spark-rapids github repo](https://github.com/NVIDIA/spark-rapids/issues) with a minimum reproduce
and the not-supported messages if they are non-senstive data.

> ## Performance Tuning

Reviewer 3: We already have a tuning guide, and I'd rather not scatter tuning suggestions across multiple documents.  I recommend moving this section to the tuning guide and referencing it from here.

Author: @jlowe I think one purpose of this best practice guide is to give user a simplified set of tips instead of digging into the complete tuning guide. How do you think?

Reviewer 3: Having a best practices doc is great, but I don't see that as a necessity to spread tuning information in multiple places.  What I'm suggesting is to move the best practices related to tuning (not OOM debugging or other stuff) to the tuning guide, since many people will reach for the tuning guide and miss stuff put here.  Main point is I don't want N places where users should look for tuning tips, as we already have a place for tuning tips.

Author: @jlowe  sure just added the tuning guide. How is now?

Reviewer 3: Glad to see the tuning tips moved to where we already have other tips.  We may want to do a cleanup/reorg pass on the tuning doc to move the more common/important tips to the top of the document or in its own section, but we can do that in a followup issue if needed.

Author: Sure, that is a good idea.

### 4. Spark RAPIDS tuning guide

To understand more Spark RAPIDS related configurations on performance tuning, please refer to 
[Tuning Guide](../tuning-guide.md) for more details.

### 5. Exclude bad nodes from YARN resource

Just in case there are bad nodes due to hardware failure issues (including GPU failure), we suggest 
setting `spark.yarn.executor.launch.excludeOnFailure.enabled=true` so that the problematic node can 
be excluded.

Refer to [Running Spark on YARN](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/running-on-yarn.html) for more 
details.

## How to handle GPU OOM issues

Spark jobs running out of GPU memory is the most common issue because GPU memory is usually much 
smaller than host memory. Below are some common tips to help avoid GPU OOM issue.

### 1. Reduce the number of concurrent tasks per GPU

This is controlled by `spark.rapids.sql.concurrentGpuTasks`. Try to decrease this value to 1. 
If the job still hit OOMs, try the following steps.

### 2. Install CUDA 11.5 or above version

The default value for `spark.rapids.memory.gpu.pool` is changed to `ASYNC` from `ARENA` for CUDA 
11.5+. For CUDA 11.4 and older, it will fall back to `ARENA`.

> Using ASYNC allocator can avoid certain memory fragmentation issue.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Using ASYNC allocator can avoid some memory fragmentation issues.
```

> The Spark executor log should print below messages to indicate how much memory the executor could 
> have used:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Spark executor log will contain a message like the following when using the ASYNC allocator:
```

```
INFO GpuDeviceManager: Initializing RMM ASYNC pool size = 17840.349609375 MB on gpuId 0
```

### 3. Identify which SQL, job and stage runs OOM

The relationship between SQL/job/stage are: Stage belongs to a Job which belongs to SQL.
Firstly check Spark UI to identify the problematic SQL ID, Job ID, and Stage ID.

Then find the failed stage in the `stages` page in Spark UI, and go into that stage to look at tasks.
If some tasks completed successfully while some tasks failed with OOM, check the amount of input 
types or shuffle bytes read per task to see if there is any data skew.

Check the DAG of the problematic stage to see if there are any suspicious operators which may 
consume huge memory, such as windowing, collect_list/collect_set, explode, etc. 

### 4. Increase the # of tasks/partitions based on the type of the problematic stage

#### a. Table Scan Stage

If it is a table scan stage on Parquet/ORC tables, then the # of tasks/partitions is normally 
determined by `spark.sql.files.maxPartitionBytes`. We can decrease its value to increase the # of 
tasks/partitions for this stage so that the memory pressure of each task is less. 

> Iceberg or Delta 
> tables may have different settings to control the concurrency in the table scan stage. For example, 
> Iceberg uses `read.split.target-size` to control the split size.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Iceberg or Delta  tables may have different settings to control the concurrency in the table
scan stage. For example, Iceberg uses `read.split.target-size` as a table property or read option
to control the split size.
```

#### b. Shuffle Stage

If it is a shuffle stage, then the # of tasks/partitions is normally determined by 
`spark.sql.shuffle.partitions`(default value=200), and also AQE's Coalescing Post Shuffle Partitions
feature (Such as parameters `spark.sql.adaptive.coalescePartitions.minPartitionSize`, 
`spark.sql.adaptive.advisoryPartitionSizeInBytes` etc.).

We can adjust the above parameters to increase the # of tasks/partitions for this shuffle stage to 
reduce the memory pressure for each task. For example, we can start with increasing 

> `spark.sql.shuffle.partitions`(2x,4x,8x,etc.).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`spark.sql.shuffle.partitions` (2x,4x,8x,etc.).
```

> Even though there is no OOM issue but if we found lots of spilling based on SQL plan metrics from 
> Spark UI in this shuffle stage, increasing the # of tasks/partitions could decrease the spilling 
> data size to improve performance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Even without an OOM error, if the SQL plan metrics show lots of spilling from the
Spark UI in this stage, increasing the number  of tasks/partitions could decrease the
spilled data size to improve performance.
```

Note: AQE's Coalescing Post Shuffle Partitions feature could have different behaviors in different 
Spark 3.x versions. For example, in Spark 3.1.3, `spark.sql.adaptive.coalescePartitions.minPartitionNum`
by default is set to `spark.sql.shuffle.partitions`(default value=200). However in Spark 3.2 or 3.3, 

> `minPartitionNum` does not exist any more. So always check the correct version of Spark doc.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`minPartitionNum` does not exist any more. So always check the correct version of the Spark documentation.
```

### 5. Reduce columnar batch size and file reader batch size

Please refer to [Tuning Guide](../tuning-guide.md#columnar-batch-size) to understand below 2 Spark 
RAPIDS parameters:
```
spark.rapids.sql.batchSizeBytes
spark.rapids.sql.reader.batchSizeBytes
```

### 6. File an issue on github repo

If you are still getting an OOM exception, please get the Spark eventlog and stack trace from the 
executor (the whole executor log ideally) and send to spark-rapids-support@nvidia.com , or file a 

> github issue on [spark-rapids github repo](https://github.com/NVIDIA/spark-rapids/issues) if it is 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Github issue on [spark-rapids github repo](https://github.com/NVIDIA/spark-rapids/issues) if it is 
```
